Blog - 5 customer-facing analytics examples (#16553)
PostHog/posthog.com: contents/blog/customer-facing-analytics-examples.md

---
title: The 5 best customer-facing analytics examples (and what to steal from each)

> date: 2026-04-23

Reviewer: ```suggestion
date: 2026-05-05
```

> date: 2026-05-05

Reviewer 2: oh, don't forget to update this too

category: General
tags:
    - Endpoints
    - Data
    - Customer Analytics
seo:
    metaTitle: "The 5 best customer-facing analytics examples (and what to steal from each)"
    metaDescription: '5 customer-facing analytics examples worth stealing, plus how to ship your own in PostHog without a data team or custom APIs.'
---

Customer-facing analytics are the stats you show your users, not your internal team. A users' usage dashboard, a "23 people are viewing this right now" counter on a product page, a public leaderboard, or how big your support queue is.

Under the hood, a lot of these are powered by the same kind of infrastructure: a fast, authenticated API layer that takes product data and ships it straight into the place users will see it. At PostHog, we call this [Endpoints](/endpoints).

Endpoints are a way to expose your PostHog data as fast, versioned, authenticated APIs you can [drop straight into your product](/docs/endpoints) without maintaining a custom API backend. 

But, rather than telling you what customer-facing analytics is, we’re going to show you five companies who do it really well, and for each one, we've pulled out what's worth copying.

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

![ProductHunt's homepage leaderboard](https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/q_auto,f_auto/producthunt_6ca9a9dc9e.png)

### What to steal

Make your analytics two-sided. If you're sitting on ranking data , you have a potential product. Leaderboards get dismissed as a gimmick, but Product Hunt turned a database of upvotes into the homepage and let it do two jobs at once: recommendation feed for readers, scoreboard for makers. The more people check it, the more valuable ranking on it becomes.

## 4. HogHero: Augmenting support data with user information

One of the ways we use Endpoints is HogHero, our internal Zendesk app. 

When a customer opens a support ticket, HogHero shows our support rep the recent conversations that customer had with PostHog AI before they reached a human. The rep gets the context instantly and they start the conversation already halfway to the answer.

![PostHog HogHero dashboard](https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/q_auto,f_auto/posthog_hoghero_877cc43b1c.png)

### What to steal

> Customer-facing analytics doesn't have to mean end-customer-facing. The fastest way to make an internal tool feel magical is to put the right data inside the app people are already in, not build yet another place they have to log into. Our reps don't have to switch tabs to PostHog and rebuild the customer's context, the conversation history is just there, scoped to that customer, the moment the ticket opens.

Reviewer 2: nice

---
title: The 5 best customer-facing analytics examples (and what to steal from each)
date: 2026-04-23
rootPage: /blog
sidebar: Blog
showTitle: true
hideAnchor: true
author:
    - lizzie-epton
featuredImage: >-
    https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/workflows_beta_cover_a04e206b7a.jpg
category: General
tags:
    - Endpoints
    - Data
    - Customer Analytics
seo:
    metaTitle: "The 5 best customer-facing analytics examples (and what to steal from each)"
    metaDescription: '5 customer-facing analytics examples worth stealing, plus how to ship your own in PostHog without a data team or custom APIs.'
---

> Customer-facing analytics is the stats you show your users, not your internal team. Users' usage dashboard, a "23 people are viewing this right now" counter on a product page, a public leaderboard, or how big your support queue is.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Customer-facing analytics are the stats you show your users, not your internal team. A users' usage dashboard, a "23 people are viewing this right now" counter on a product page, a public leaderboard, or how big your support queue is.
```

> What you probably didn't know is that a lot of this is powered by the same kind of tech under the hood: a fast, authenticated API layer that takes product data and ships it straight into the place users will see it. At PostHog, we call this [Endpoints](/endpoints).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Under the hood, a lot of these are powered by the same kind of infrastructure: a fast, authenticated API layer that takes product data and ships it straight into the place users will see it. At PostHog, we call this [Endpoints](/endpoints).
```

Our audience is quite technical and probably does know

Endpoints are a way to expose your PostHog data as fast, versioned, authenticated APIs you can [drop straight into your product](/docs/endpoints) without maintaining a custom API backend. 

But, rather than telling you what customer-facing analytics is, we’re going to show you five companies who do it really well, and for each one, we've pulled out what's worth copying.

## 1. Vercel Analytics: Embedded customer usage dashboard

**Vercel** is the textbook case of a dashboard that customers log in to check. Every project deployed on Vercel ships with a Web Analytics panel that surfaces live visitor counts, top pages, referrers, UTM campaigns, and geographic breakdowns. All one click from the deploy button, with no separate tool to install.

> ![Vercel's embedded analytics dasboard](https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/q_auto,f_auto/vercel_dashboard_5e867b436f.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![Vercel's embedded analytics dashboard](https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/q_auto,f_auto/vercel_dashboard_5e867b436f.png)
```

### Why it works 

The detail Vercel has [talked about publicly](https://vercel.com/changelog/new-usage-dashboard-for-pro-customers) is latency: data shows up "seconds after enabling Analytics, not 30 minutes." They treat customer analytics with the same latency expectations as the rest of the product. 

If you've ever hit refresh on a dashboard wondering whether the numbers are actually live or 20 minutes stale, you know why this matters. Customer-facing analytics lose most of their value the moment users stop trusting the numbers are current.

> Good news if you're a PostHog user: We just launched a real-time dashboard for [Web Analytics.](https://posthog.com/web-analytics) 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Good news if you're a PostHog user: We just launched a real-time dashboard for [Web Analytics](/web-analytics). 
```
We use relative links for internal links :)
